README.md, before:

# Arena-Hard-Auto
Arena-Hard-Auto-v0.1 is an automatic evaluation tool for instruction-tuned LLMs. It contains 500 challenging user queries. We prompt GPT-4-Turbo as judge to compare the models' responses against a baseline model (default: GPT-4-0314). Although both Arena-Hard-Auto and Chatbot Arena Category Hard employ similar pipeline to select hard prompts, Arena-Hard-Auto employs automatic judge as a cheaper and faster approximator to human preference. Notably, Arena-Hard-Auto has the highest correlation and separability to Chatbot Arena among popular open-ended LLM benchmarks (see our blog post). If you are curious to see how well your model might perform on Chatbot Arena, we recommend trying Arena-Hard-Auto. 

Check out our blog post for more details about how Arena Hard Auto v0.1 works -> [Blog post link](https://lmsys.org/blog/2024-04-19-arena-hard/).

## Full Leaderboard (Updated: 05/21)
```console
gpt-4-turbo-2024-04-09         | score: 82.6  | 95% CI: (-1.7, 1.9)  | average #tokens: 662
gpt-4-0125-preview             | score: 78.0  | 95% CI: (-2.1, 2.4)  | average #tokens: 619
gemini-1.5-pro-api-preview     | score: 72.0  | 95% CI: (-2.1, 2.5)  | average #tokens: 676
yi-large                       | score: 63.7  | 95% CI: (-2.6, 2.4)  | average #tokens: 626   
claude-3-opus-20240229         | score: 60.4  | 95% CI: (-2.5, 2.5)  | average #tokens: 541
glm-4                          | score: 55.7  | 95% CI: (-2.4, 2.3)  | average #tokens: 622
gpt-4-0314                     | score: 50.0  | 95% CI:  (0.0, 0.0)  | average #tokens: 423
gemini-1.5-flash-api-preview   | score: 49.6  | 95% CI: (-2.2, 2.8)  | average #tokens: 642
claude-3-sonnet-20240229       | score: 46.8  | 95% CI: (-2.3, 2.7)  | average #tokens: 552
claude-3-haiku-20240307        | score: 41.5  | 95% CI: (-2.5, 2.5)  | average #tokens: 505
llama-3-70b-chat-hf            | score: 41.1  | 95% CI: (-2.0, 2.2)  | average #tokens: 583
gpt-4-0613                     | score: 37.9  | 95% CI: (-2.8, 2.4)  | average #tokens: 354
mistral-large-2402             | score: 37.7  | 95% CI: (-2.1, 2.6)  | average #tokens: 400
mixtral-8x22b-instruct-v0.1    | score: 36.4  | 95% CI: (-2.4, 2.6)  | average #tokens: 430
Qwen1.5-72B-Chat               | score: 36.1  | 95% CI: (-2.0, 2.7)  | average #tokens: 474
command-r-plus                 | score: 33.1  | 95% CI: (-2.8, 2.4)  | average #tokens: 541
mistral-medium                 | score: 31.9  | 95% CI: (-1.9, 2.2)  | average #tokens: 485
mistral-next                   | score: 27.4  | 95% CI: (-2.4, 2.4)  | average #tokens: 297
gpt-3.5-turbo-0613             | score: 24.8  | 95% CI: (-1.9, 2.3)  | average #tokens: 401
claude-2.0                     | score: 24.0  | 95% CI: (-1.8, 1.8)  | average #tokens: 295
dbrx-instruct                  | score: 23.9  | 95% CI: (-1.5, 1.5)  | average #tokens: 415
Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1     | score: 23.4  | 95% CI: (-2.0, 1.9)  | average #tokens: 457
gpt-3.5-turbo-0125             | score: 23.3  | 95% CI: (-2.2, 1.9)  | average #tokens: 329
Yi-34B-Chat                    | score: 23.1  | 95% CI: (-1.6, 1.8)  | average #tokens: 611
Starling-LM-7B-beta            | score: 23.0  | 95% CI: (-1.8, 1.8)  | average #tokens: 530
claude-2.1                     | score: 22.8  | 95% CI: (-2.3, 1.8)  | average #tokens: 290
Snorkel-Mistral-PairRM-DPO     | score: 20.7  | 95% CI: (-1.8, 2.2)  | average #tokens: 564                       
llama-3-8b-chat-hf             | score: 20.6  | 95% CI: (-2.0, 1.9)  | average #tokens: 585                       
gpt-3.5-turbo-1106             | score: 18.9  | 95% CI: (-1.8, 1.6)  | average #tokens: 285                       
gpt-3.5-turbo-0301             | score: 18.1  | 95% CI: (-1.9, 2.1)  | average #tokens: 334                               
gemini-1.0-pro                 | score: 17.8  | 95% CI: (-1.2, 2.2)  | average #tokens: 322                               
snowflake-arctic-instruct      | score: 17.6  | 95% CI: (-1.8, 1.5)  | average #tokens: 365                                         
command-r                      | score: 17.0  | 95% CI: (-1.7, 1.8)  | average #tokens: 432                                         
phi-3-mini-128k-instruct       | score: 15.4  | 95% CI: (-1.4, 1.4)  | average #tokens: 609                                                    
tulu-2-dpo-70b                 | score: 15.0  | 95% CI: (-1.6, 1.3)  | average #tokens: 550                                                    
Starling-LM-7B-alpha           | score: 12.8  | 95% CI: (-1.6, 1.4)  | average #tokens: 483                                                    
mistral-7b-instruct            | score: 12.6  | 95% CI: (-1.7, 1.4)  | average #tokens: 541                                                                 
gemma-1.1-7b-it                | score: 12.1  | 95% CI: (-1.3, 1.3)  | average #tokens: 341                                                                 
Llama-2-70b-chat-hf            | score: 11.6  | 95% CI: (-1.5, 1.2)  | average #tokens: 595                                                                 
vicuna-33b-v1.3                | score:  8.6  | 95% CI: (-1.1, 1.1)  | average #tokens: 451                                                                 
gemma-7b-it                    | score:  7.5  | 95% CI: (-1.2, 1.3)  | average #tokens: 378                                                                                
Llama-2-7b-chat-hf             | score:  4.6  | 95% CI: (-0.8, 0.8)  | average #tokens: 561                                                                                
gemma-1.1-2b-it                | score:  3.4  | 95% CI: (-0.6, 0.8)  | average #tokens: 316                                                                                
gemma-2b-it                    | score:  3.0  | 95% CI: (-0.6, 0.6)  | average #tokens: 369
```

## Install Dependencies
```
git clone https://github.com/lm-sys/arena-hard.git
cd arena-hard
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install -r requirements-optional.txt  # Optional dependencies (e.g., anthropic sdk)
```

## Download dataset
We have pre-generated many popular models answers and judgments. You can browse them with an online [demo](https://huggingface.co/spaces/lmsys/arena-hard-browser) or download them (with [`git-lfs`](https://git-lfs.com) installed) by
```console
> git clone https://huggingface.co/spaces/lmsys/arena-hard-browser
// copy answers/judgments to the data directory
> cp -r arena-hard-browser/data . 
```
Then run
```console
> python show_result.py
gpt-4-0125-preview             | score: 78.0  | 95% CI: (-1.8, 2.2)  | average #tokens: 619
claude-3-opus-20240229         | score: 60.4  | 95% CI: (-2.6, 2.1)  | average #tokens: 541
gpt-4-0314                     | score: 50.0  | 95% CI:  (0.0, 0.0)  | average #tokens: 423
claude-3-sonnet-20240229       | score: 46.8  | 95% CI: (-2.7, 2.3)  | average #tokens: 552
claude-3-haiku-20240307        | score: 41.5  | 95% CI: (-2.4, 2.5)  | average #tokens: 505
gpt-4-0613                     | score: 37.9  | 95% CI: (-2.1, 2.2)  | average #tokens: 354
mistral-large-2402             | score: 37.7  | 95% CI: (-2.9, 2.8)  | average #tokens: 400
Qwen1.5-72B-Chat               | score: 36.1  | 95% CI: (-2.1, 2.4)  | average #tokens: 474
command-r-plus                 | score: 33.1  | 95% CI: (-2.0, 1.9)  | average #tokens: 541
```
Running `show_results.py` will save generated battles into `data/arena_hard_battles.jsonl` and bootstrapping statistics into `data/bootstrapping_results.jsonl`. If you don't want to regenerate battles or bootstrapping statistics, simply toggle argument `--load-battles` or `--load-bootstrap`, respectively.

## Evaluate a new model on Arena-Hard-Auto v0.1:

### Step 1. Set up the endpoint config to your model

Fill in your API endpoint in `config/api_config.yaml`. We support OpenAI compatible API server. You can specify `parallel` to indicate the number of concurrent API requests (default: 1).
```yaml
# example
gpt-3.5-turbo-0125:
    model_name: gpt-3.5-turbo-0125
    endpoints: null
    api_type: openai
    parallel: 8

[YOUR-MODEL-NAME]:
    model_name: [YOUR-MODEL-NAME]
    endpoints:
        - api_base: [YOUR-ENDPOINT-URL]
          api_key: [YOUR-API-KEY]
    api_type: openai
    parallel: 8
```
You may use inference engine such as [vLLM](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/serving/openai_compatible_server.html) or [SGLang](https://github.com/sgl-project/sglang?tab=readme-ov-file#using-local-models) to host your model with an OpenAI compatible API server.


### Step 2. Generate Model Answers

In `config/gen_answer_config.yaml`, add your model name in `model_list`.
```yaml
bench_name: arena-hard-v0.1
temperature: 0.0
max_tokens: 4096
num_choices: 1

model_list:
  - [YOUR-MODEL-NAME]
```
Run the command to generate answers:
```console
python gen_answer.py
```
Caching feature is implemented. The code will skip generating an answer when there is already an existing answer/judgment to the same prompt. 

### Step 3. Generate Judgments

In `config/judge_config.yaml`, add your model name in `model_list`.
```yaml
...
# Add your model below for evaluation
model_list:
  - gpt-3.5-turbo-0125
  - [YOUR-MODEL-NAME]
```

Run the command to generate judgments:
```console
python gen_judgment.py
```
Judgment caching is also implemented. It will skip generating judgments that has already been generated or lacks one of the model answers.  

### Step 4. Show result
Output model win rates.  Optionally, use `--full-stats` for detailed results.
```console
> python show_result.py
```
### Step 5. Arena Hard UI
You can review individual judgment results using our UI code.
```console
> python qa_broswer.py --share
```

## Community Contribution
Coming soon...

## Citation
```
@misc{arenahard2024,
    title = {From Live Data to High-Quality Benchmarks: The Arena-Hard Pipeline},
    url = {https://lmsys.org/blog/2024-04-19-arena-hard/},
    author = {Tianle Li*, Wei-Lin Chiang*, Evan Frick, Lisa Dunlap, Banghua Zhu, Joseph E. Gonzalez, Ion Stoica},
    month = {April},
    year = {2024}
}
```

Commit message:

add paper links and citations

README.md, after:

# Arena-Hard-Auto
Arena-Hard-Auto-v0.1 is an automatic evaluation tool for instruction-tuned LLMs. It contains 500 challenging user queries. We prompt GPT-4-Turbo as judge to compare the models' responses against a baseline model (default: GPT-4-0314). Although both Arena-Hard-Auto and Chatbot Arena Category Hard employ similar pipeline to select hard prompts, Arena-Hard-Auto employs automatic judge as a cheaper and faster approximator to human preference. Notably, Arena-Hard-Auto has the highest correlation and separability to Chatbot Arena among popular open-ended LLM benchmarks (see our blog post). If you are curious to see how well your model might perform on Chatbot Arena, we recommend trying Arena-Hard-Auto. 

Check out our paper for more details about how Arena Hard Auto v0.1 works -> [Paper link](https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11939).

## Full Leaderboard (Updated: 05/21)
```console
gpt-4-turbo-2024-04-09         | score: 82.6  | 95% CI: (-1.7, 1.9)  | average #tokens: 662
gpt-4-0125-preview             | score: 78.0  | 95% CI: (-2.1, 2.4)  | average #tokens: 619
gemini-1.5-pro-api-preview     | score: 72.0  | 95% CI: (-2.1, 2.5)  | average #tokens: 676
yi-large                       | score: 63.7  | 95% CI: (-2.6, 2.4)  | average #tokens: 626   
claude-3-opus-20240229         | score: 60.4  | 95% CI: (-2.5, 2.5)  | average #tokens: 541
glm-4                          | score: 55.7  | 95% CI: (-2.4, 2.3)  | average #tokens: 622
gpt-4-0314                     | score: 50.0  | 95% CI:  (0.0, 0.0)  | average #tokens: 423
gemini-1.5-flash-api-preview   | score: 49.6  | 95% CI: (-2.2, 2.8)  | average #tokens: 642
claude-3-sonnet-20240229       | score: 46.8  | 95% CI: (-2.3, 2.7)  | average #tokens: 552
claude-3-haiku-20240307        | score: 41.5  | 95% CI: (-2.5, 2.5)  | average #tokens: 505
llama-3-70b-chat-hf            | score: 41.1  | 95% CI: (-2.0, 2.2)  | average #tokens: 583
gpt-4-0613                     | score: 37.9  | 95% CI: (-2.8, 2.4)  | average #tokens: 354
mistral-large-2402             | score: 37.7  | 95% CI: (-2.1, 2.6)  | average #tokens: 400
mixtral-8x22b-instruct-v0.1    | score: 36.4  | 95% CI: (-2.4, 2.6)  | average #tokens: 430
Qwen1.5-72B-Chat               | score: 36.1  | 95% CI: (-2.0, 2.7)  | average #tokens: 474
command-r-plus                 | score: 33.1  | 95% CI: (-2.8, 2.4)  | average #tokens: 541
mistral-medium                 | score: 31.9  | 95% CI: (-1.9, 2.2)  | average #tokens: 485
mistral-next                   | score: 27.4  | 95% CI: (-2.4, 2.4)  | average #tokens: 297
gpt-3.5-turbo-0613             | score: 24.8  | 95% CI: (-1.9, 2.3)  | average #tokens: 401
claude-2.0                     | score: 24.0  | 95% CI: (-1.8, 1.8)  | average #tokens: 295
dbrx-instruct                  | score: 23.9  | 95% CI: (-1.5, 1.5)  | average #tokens: 415
Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1     | score: 23.4  | 95% CI: (-2.0, 1.9)  | average #tokens: 457
gpt-3.5-turbo-0125             | score: 23.3  | 95% CI: (-2.2, 1.9)  | average #tokens: 329
Yi-34B-Chat                    | score: 23.1  | 95% CI: (-1.6, 1.8)  | average #tokens: 611
Starling-LM-7B-beta            | score: 23.0  | 95% CI: (-1.8, 1.8)  | average #tokens: 530
claude-2.1                     | score: 22.8  | 95% CI: (-2.3, 1.8)  | average #tokens: 290
Snorkel-Mistral-PairRM-DPO     | score: 20.7  | 95% CI: (-1.8, 2.2)  | average #tokens: 564                       
llama-3-8b-chat-hf             | score: 20.6  | 95% CI: (-2.0, 1.9)  | average #tokens: 585                       
gpt-3.5-turbo-1106             | score: 18.9  | 95% CI: (-1.8, 1.6)  | average #tokens: 285                       
gpt-3.5-turbo-0301             | score: 18.1  | 95% CI: (-1.9, 2.1)  | average #tokens: 334                               
gemini-1.0-pro                 | score: 17.8  | 95% CI: (-1.2, 2.2)  | average #tokens: 322                               
snowflake-arctic-instruct      | score: 17.6  | 95% CI: (-1.8, 1.5)  | average #tokens: 365                                         
command-r                      | score: 17.0  | 95% CI: (-1.7, 1.8)  | average #tokens: 432                                         
phi-3-mini-128k-instruct       | score: 15.4  | 95% CI: (-1.4, 1.4)  | average #tokens: 609                                                    
tulu-2-dpo-70b                 | score: 15.0  | 95% CI: (-1.6, 1.3)  | average #tokens: 550                                                    
Starling-LM-7B-alpha           | score: 12.8  | 95% CI: (-1.6, 1.4)  | average #tokens: 483                                                    
mistral-7b-instruct            | score: 12.6  | 95% CI: (-1.7, 1.4)  | average #tokens: 541                                                                 
gemma-1.1-7b-it                | score: 12.1  | 95% CI: (-1.3, 1.3)  | average #tokens: 341                                                                 
Llama-2-70b-chat-hf            | score: 11.6  | 95% CI: (-1.5, 1.2)  | average #tokens: 595                                                                 
vicuna-33b-v1.3                | score:  8.6  | 95% CI: (-1.1, 1.1)  | average #tokens: 451                                                                 
gemma-7b-it                    | score:  7.5  | 95% CI: (-1.2, 1.3)  | average #tokens: 378                                                                                
Llama-2-7b-chat-hf             | score:  4.6  | 95% CI: (-0.8, 0.8)  | average #tokens: 561                                                                                
gemma-1.1-2b-it                | score:  3.4  | 95% CI: (-0.6, 0.8)  | average #tokens: 316                                                                                
gemma-2b-it                    | score:  3.0  | 95% CI: (-0.6, 0.6)  | average #tokens: 369
```

## Install Dependencies
```
git clone https://github.com/lm-sys/arena-hard.git
cd arena-hard
pip install -r requirements.txt
pip install -r requirements-optional.txt  # Optional dependencies (e.g., anthropic sdk)
```

## Download dataset
We have pre-generated many popular models answers and judgments. You can browse them with an online [demo](https://huggingface.co/spaces/lmsys/arena-hard-browser) or download them (with [`git-lfs`](https://git-lfs.com) installed) by
```console
> git clone https://huggingface.co/spaces/lmsys/arena-hard-browser
// copy answers/judgments to the data directory
> cp -r arena-hard-browser/data . 
```
Then run
```console
> python show_result.py
gpt-4-0125-preview             | score: 78.0  | 95% CI: (-1.8, 2.2)  | average #tokens: 619
claude-3-opus-20240229         | score: 60.4  | 95% CI: (-2.6, 2.1)  | average #tokens: 541
gpt-4-0314                     | score: 50.0  | 95% CI:  (0.0, 0.0)  | average #tokens: 423
claude-3-sonnet-20240229       | score: 46.8  | 95% CI: (-2.7, 2.3)  | average #tokens: 552
claude-3-haiku-20240307        | score: 41.5  | 95% CI: (-2.4, 2.5)  | average #tokens: 505
gpt-4-0613                     | score: 37.9  | 95% CI: (-2.1, 2.2)  | average #tokens: 354
mistral-large-2402             | score: 37.7  | 95% CI: (-2.9, 2.8)  | average #tokens: 400
Qwen1.5-72B-Chat               | score: 36.1  | 95% CI: (-2.1, 2.4)  | average #tokens: 474
command-r-plus                 | score: 33.1  | 95% CI: (-2.0, 1.9)  | average #tokens: 541
```
Running `show_results.py` will save generated battles into `data/arena_hard_battles.jsonl` and bootstrapping statistics into `data/bootstrapping_results.jsonl`. If you don't want to regenerate battles or bootstrapping statistics, simply toggle argument `--load-battles` or `--load-bootstrap`, respectively.

## Evaluate a new model on Arena-Hard-Auto v0.1:

### Step 1. Set up the endpoint config to your model

Fill in your API endpoint in `config/api_config.yaml`. We support OpenAI compatible API server. You can specify `parallel` to indicate the number of concurrent API requests (default: 1).
```yaml
# example
gpt-3.5-turbo-0125:
    model_name: gpt-3.5-turbo-0125
    endpoints: null
    api_type: openai
    parallel: 8

[YOUR-MODEL-NAME]:
    model_name: [YOUR-MODEL-NAME]
    endpoints:
        - api_base: [YOUR-ENDPOINT-URL]
          api_key: [YOUR-API-KEY]
    api_type: openai
    parallel: 8
```
You may use inference engine such as [vLLM](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/latest/serving/openai_compatible_server.html) or [SGLang](https://github.com/sgl-project/sglang?tab=readme-ov-file#using-local-models) to host your model with an OpenAI compatible API server.


### Step 2. Generate Model Answers

In `config/gen_answer_config.yaml`, add your model name in `model_list`.
```yaml
bench_name: arena-hard-v0.1
temperature: 0.0
max_tokens: 4096
num_choices: 1

model_list:
  - [YOUR-MODEL-NAME]
```
Run the command to generate answers:
```console
python gen_answer.py
```
Caching feature is implemented. The code will skip generating an answer when there is already an existing answer/judgment to the same prompt. 

### Step 3. Generate Judgments

In `config/judge_config.yaml`, add your model name in `model_list`.
```yaml
...
# Add your model below for evaluation
model_list:
  - gpt-3.5-turbo-0125
  - [YOUR-MODEL-NAME]
```

Run the command to generate judgments:
```console
python gen_judgment.py
```
Judgment caching is also implemented. It will skip generating judgments that has already been generated or lacks one of the model answers.  

### Step 4. Show result
Output model win rates.  Optionally, use `--full-stats` for detailed results.
```console
> python show_result.py
```
### Step 5. Arena Hard UI
You can review individual judgment results using our UI code.
```console
> python qa_broswer.py --share
```

## Community Contribution
Coming soon...

## Citation
The code in this repository is mostly developed for or derived from the paper below. Please cite it if you find the repository helpful.
```
@misc{li2024crowdsourced,
      title={From Crowdsourced Data to High-Quality Benchmarks: Arena-Hard and BenchBuilder Pipeline}, 
      author={Tianle Li and Wei-Lin Chiang and Evan Frick and Lisa Dunlap and Tianhao Wu and Banghua Zhu and Joseph E. Gonzalez and Ion Stoica},
      year={2024},
      eprint={2406.11939},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.LG}
}
```
